We want to shape our current query and to do that,
we want to apply a simple data model schema, the star schema and we will build the base for that schema
right now in the query editor. Before we start,
let me make a quick note. In this course, we will focus on the capabilities of the Power BI tools,
so how these tools work and how you can connect those tools,
nevertheless I think it makes sense to take a quick look at the basic concept of such a star schema.
Let's do that right now.
So if you ever heard about the star schema, you might have heard about two things,
FACT table and DIM tables.
Well, a FACT table is a single table in a star schema,
whereas the DIM table, the dimension tables exist multiple times,
let's take a closer look at how this works.
Imagine you have the following tables,
you have one table named products, in this products table, you have different columns which are equal
to the bullet points you see right here.
The first bullet point is the identifier product and the important thing is that this identifier product
column is a unique column,
this means each value exists only once and each of this identifier identifies the product,
this means the product type, the price per unit,
the cost per unit and other types of information.
So this is the first table that you might have. You might have a second table, the customers table. In
this customers table, you have the first column which is the identifier of the customers,
again a unique value for each row and each identifier is defined by the first name,
the second name, the age and so on,
so any information that you could add to a potential customer table. You might have a third table,
the time table. The time table again has one unique column,
this is the identifier date column which would basically be the date,
so day, month and year and some other information like year, quarter, month, week or day
and you might have a fourth column, the SalesPoint column.
The important thing is that you again often identify an IdentifierGeo which is the unique identifier of each sales
point that you have and the sales point might be defined by the continent, the country, the city, the address
or anything else that you might imagine.
Now as you can see, there should be a certain relation between those data,
right?
If you have a sales point where you sold the product, you might want to know what kind of product you
sold, who bought the product,
so which customer you sold the product to
and when you sold the product. So you need something like a connection that allows you to create a communication
base for the four tables that you have right here.
Now at the moment, you only have those four DIM tables, the dimension tables and you have to add that combination
table as I would call it,
so this table. This table combines the information of the four tables with the unique identifiers we just
talked about,
you can see them in the first four bullet points.
The important thing is that this FACT table is exactly what I just said,
if you create a schema like that, a star schema, then you can connect all the four tables with just that
FACT table in the middle because if you look at the DIM table products, you can see that the identifier product
is also in the FACT table.
The same thing is the DIM table customers with the identifier customers which is also in the FACT
table,
this is also true for the remaining two tables, the time table and the SalesPoint table.
Now with this schema, we would be able to create a basic data model using the star schema
as I just said and by that, we could give our model some more structure.
Now the question you might ask yourself is, what has this to do with our current population combined
query that we have because currently, we have a structure like this.
We have the population combined query,
so one table with the country ID, the country, the year and so on.
This is true
but what if we were to create the following schema. We would split our population combined table into
a DIM table region and a DIM table age,
this means we would kind of spin off the information about the countries and about the age groups.
Now why would we do that?
Well as you can see in the DIM table region, we have the country ID which is an information that we already
have,
we have the country, also something we already have
and we have that region,
this is something that we don't have at the moment
and this is an information that I want to add.
Now we could add that in the population combined query, of course this is not a problem but I think it's
better if we apply a structure like that to keep our model, well better organized because then you have
two tables with additional information like region or age and you have that FACT table which combines
the information and the only information we have in the FACT table about the country is the country ID,
so only one column. The same thing is true for the DIM table age or age group,
we will see how we will call that. In the DIM table age,
we have that age group ID,
we don't have that at the moment
so we have to create that, we have the age group,
so the 0 - 4 and so on, this is something that we have and we want to have the category. Well this
category is something like baby, adult, senior and so on,
so also something that we have to create. Now again, we will create that separately in the DIM table
age group and only add the age group ID to our FACT table,
so to the population table in the middle and this is what we want to do in the next videos.
So we want to turn that single population combined query into a basic structure for a star schema like
this.
Now I think it's time to start that, let's do this right now.